INFORMATION ON LICENSING


USE ON MORE THAN ONE COMPUTER

To use PKWARE products in a commercial, educational or governmental
agency on more than one computer, it is necessary to purchase a SITE
LICENSE. The Site License allows the organization to use the 
software package on up to the number of computers licensed. Site 
License fees are based on the total number of computers/users that 
will use the software package. Please use the "Multiple Use" Site 
License section in the ORDER.TXT file. NOTE THAT THE SITE LICENSE 
INCLUDES ONE COPY OF THE SOFTWARE AND DOCUMENTATION. The Site License 
allows you to copy the software for the number of machines licensed.
Distributing, repackaging, or reselling of the software to third 
parties is not allowed. All licenses are prepaid.


DISTRIBUTION LICENSE

A Distribution License is required by an organization, company or 
government agency to use PKWARE programs to facilitate the 
distribution of software to outside parties. To use PKWARE programs
within your organization, company, educational or government agency,
please see the Site License information.

Should a self-extracting file, created with a PKWARE product, be 
used, a Distribution License is required since PKWARE code is
distributed in the form of the PKSFX program combined with file(s)
being distributed.

If you wish to distribute all or any part of a Command Line version 
of PKZIP, a Distribution License is required. A Distribution License
for the Graphic User Interface versions of PKZIP only allows for the
distribution of self-extracting files.

If you wish to receive a quotation for the Distribution Licensed
version of PKZIP for Windows, DOS, Command Line for Windows 9x/NT, 
OS/2, or UNIX, please call PKWARE at 414-354-8699, or see our Web 
page at http://www.pkware.com/catalog/distlicense.html for further 
pricing information.

The Distribution License is non-exclusive and non-transferable. All
licenses are prepaid.

2/99